Welcome to the breakdown where we breakdown
the most disturbed movies!
Today we are venturing into a film called
The Girl Next Door made in 2007 that is based
on a book which itself is loosely based on
the real-life horrific crime of Sylvia Likens.
Sylvia Likens was a young American girl who
was brutally beaten, raped and mutilated by
a woman and her kids.
You can look up all the details safely on
a Wikipedia search, but this movie is basically
a loose recount of what happened, but everybody
either has different names or are new entirely
for this particular story.
I'll say after watching the movie, the crime
itself of Sylvia Likens wasn't entirely simulated
in this movie, because if it was, it would
easily be the most disturbing movie we talked
about so far.
With that said, its time to document what
happens in The Girl Next Door movie.
Ria Silva, Peach Cola, Game Silver Dog, Liani
Springs!
You asked for it, here it is...lets get to
the breakdown!
The movie starts off with a successful business
man named David walking down Wall Street when
he gets a call on his trap phone.
He passes by a homeless old man who then immediately
gets hit by a car.
The driver of the car said fuck jail, so in
order to help, David gives him CPR which surprisingly
saves the mans life.
He reveals that if he could switch places
with that man he would, thinking the vehicular
pain would numb his own inner pain.
He talks about the 1950s, setting up a flashback
to an event that involved him doing something
bad, particularly to two girls named Meg Loughlin
and her sister Susan.
We then cut to him when he young catching
some crayfish or crawfish whatever you call
them.
Meanwhile A girl is solid snaking her way
behind him and her name is Meg.
She pulls up the sleeves to catch some big
ones with her new friend and David notices
a scar on her arm.
She says its from a big accident.
This accident she's talking about killed both
her parents and made her sister Susan part
disabled.
Well Meg has to get back but if it wasn't
obvious already, David is feeling her a lot.
Back at home, David goes to his friends house
named Donny who is the cousin of Meg.
Meg and her sister are staying with Donny
and his brothers and their aunt Ruth.
David, Donny and the neighborhood kids all
group up to then play some special game.
In the woods, the oldest of the kids ties
this neighborhood girl up so she cant see
and they play a seemingly cool game where
she collects apples and throws them at people
hiding.
Well then idk she gets captured I guess and
they ask her extremely vulgar questions involving
sexual experiences, like if she ever played
with snakes this big before.
Well later, we see the carnival is in town
and Meg made sure to go for a night of fun.
David asks if she wants to ride in the Ferris
wheel which she accepts.
On the ride they talk about the accident that
took her parents and hurt her sister, but
gladly its not stopping her from keeping her
smile.
Once the ride is over, she wants a repeat,
but her Aunt Ruth wants her back home.
The next day comes quick, because here is
Ruth, who lets her sons and their friends
smoke and drink beer.
In this first encounter, she talks to her
sons Donny, Willie and Ralphie and their friend
David about her old memories of the hoochie
coo at her carnival, which are just dancing
women.
She gets ready to take them to the carnival
for its last night and calls out to Meg who
runs up looking a bit scared and bug eyed.
She tells Meg to stay here to look after her
sister and to also stay out of the ice box,
so she won't get fat, especially if she wants
to be a hoochie coo dancer.
This rude comment has David worrying about
her.
Then we see the boys in a tent outside looking
at Playboy magazines.
They also say a mean comment about Meg, which
helps support the fact that David is probably
the only one who truly cares about her.
They then go peeking into windows to see some
girls undressing.
I'm thinking this is Meg, but she shuts the
lights off.
They then wonder if maybe she could play "The
Game".
Well the next day, Ruth assembles the boys
to help tear down some silk that's all up
in the trees, with Meg in the back looking
kinda sad.
She burns down one of those cringey silk nests
but Meg says she doesn't want to help tear
them nasty things down, and Ruth says in response.
(Ruth: Ridiculing Meg for Being Disobedient).
Ruth says that her boys will handle it instead.
Then we see David looking clean and getting
himself a burger, but Meg stops him asking
if he could lend her money.
Why?
Because she hasn't eaten in two days.
Okay pause, why do I get teary eyed from this
but can just watch a movie like Cannibal Holocaust
effortlessly.
Well David buys another burger and lets her
eat his.
She says she can't eat because Ruth wont let
her get fat.
She says Ruth hates her and that she is being
singled out all the time for the most minor
things.
It strongly bothers her how much Ruth treats
her, and wont let her do anything including
paint.
Through David's encouraging words, she gains
the strength to endure further and to paint
some pictures.
Later when David is working on a lawn mower,
he hears Ruth telling Susan to toughen up.
Even though she is damn ear disabled, she
calls her a stupid little shit for dropping
laundry.
Meg then drops by David's house to deliver
a water color paining and runs away just as
quick.
Then David goes over to Ruth's house, meeting
the angelic Susan.
His intentions are to give the water color
painting to Ruth and say it's a present from
Meg, who stands there looking scared.
Ruth looks at it, but says she doesn't want
it because it was meant for him.
She then sneak disses Meg by calling her a
whore behind the scenes and calling David's
father a womanizer.
Ruth is a woman who doesn't like woman, telling
Meg she's gonna end up to be a (Ruth: Slut.
Do You Know What a Slut is Meg?
Do You Susan?
Of Course Not You're Too Young.
Anybody Who is A Slut..Deserves A Trashing).
The ambiance of this movie definitely changed
during this scene.
At night, David wakes up hearing a heating
argument between Ruth and Meg.
They are arguing about possibly her admiration
for David.
The next day, David comes over to their house,
seeing Willie, Donny and Ralphie tickle the
mess out of Meg.
When Ralphie touches her titty she punches
him.
The other boys then call her the B word multiple
itmes and Ralphie goes to tell Ruth.
They then pull Susan who was hiding in the
closet for some reason.
Ruth comes in, all on the boys side, and tells
Susan she should have tried to stop her sister
from hitting Ralphie and since she didn't,
she is guilty too, but um keep in mind she
can barely fucking walk.
As punishment for doing nothing, she puts
Susan on the side of the bed and starts spanking
her.
Meg comes in for her sister but is held down
by the boys.
She then steals Megs ring that was her mothers.
I know David's young and now is the time to
at least tell mom and dad back home.
Also, these kids know this abuse isn't right,
because a couple days later, Donny and David
see Meg talking to a police officer about
that beating.
Well later, David gets out of the house to
see Meg and Susan sitting fearful and absorbed.
Willie then walks in and slaps Meg for bringing
a cop around.
Looks like the cop didn't think it was too
serious though, and Ruth completely terrifies
the two girls making them know that no cop
or man will save them.
She hen sends them to their room so she can
reflect on punishment.
Well later at dinner, David wants to sleep
over at Aunt Ruth's house, maybe he wants
to help out any way he can.
At night, David sneaks into Aunt Ruth's house,
going down into the basement, but sees Ruth
and the boys in front of a bound, gagged and
blinded Meg.
Turns out they are playing "The Game" with
Meg, which is basically force her to answer
vulgar questions.
She has a gag in her mouth, but unfairly,
since she wont confess to stuff she hasn't
done before like sex or anything, they take
all the books from under her feet.
Struggling to stand, her only voice of reason
is given by David, but the boys relish in
the fact that they have permission to do this.
Willie then goes up and threatens her with
the knife.
He then completely removes all her clothes
and then take her gag off so she can answer
their vulgar questions.
Questions like how she plays with herself
and the such.
She asks if David's here and Susan who are
the only ones with some empathy.
Ruth tells the thirsty boys to not touch someone
like Meg who is dirty and whoreish.
They ptu the dirty gag back in and then Ruth
tells her it could be her little sister here
hanging.
She is saying either confess your slut experiences,
or Susan gets the turn.
Then we see all the boys who cant sleep.
Willie wonders what it feels like to be bound
like Meg, and so in curiosity, they go to
see how Meg is doing.
They give her some much needed and water and
promises to loosen her up if she lets them
touch her.
David then loosens her ropes, and leaves before
Ruth wakes back up.
Later, we see Ruth trying to feed Meg, but
Meg is so dehydrated that any attempt at eating
will cause her to choke.
Meg can barely raise her voice or hold this
cup of tea and Ruth knocks it away in anger.
Blaming Meg for the mess, she gets the boys
to hold her down and gets Susan to beat her
as punishment for Megs mistake.
Well suddenly David wakes up, but that wasn't
a nightmare.
In the morning, David then rides on his bike
to get back to Grove Street.
Well really its to go help his dad at work,
which is the opportunity David takes to ask
his dad if its every okay to hit girls.
Dad says hell naw basically and its best to
never hit anybody unless its all you got left!
Then we see sweet little Susan building a
puzzle.
David comes in and tells her that he cant
make them stop, but would if he could.
Then they hear some noises from Meg.
David goes downstairs and sees all the neighbor
kids bullying Meg and treating her less than
human.
Donny then ties her back up and gets a feel
on, but leaves when he hears something.
David then gets out of his hiding spot to
see what he can do to help, but get this guys,
Ruth, somehow, knows instant transmission,
either that or she was trained in stealth
by Sam Fisher himself.
Well later than night, David goes into his
parents room to tell his mom, but she was
having too good of a dream to listen.
Well later we see the family torture Meg again,
including cutting her around her stomach.
Ruth burns the wounds by sticking cigarettes
in the wounds.
Suddenly, the door bell rings and Ruth sends
the boys to answer.
In an attempt to get her to leave, David tells
her to not let the boys handle it and offers
to watch her, but Ruth says if one sound is
made, David and Meg will die.
Well the person at the door was a police officer,
who does that stereotypical suspicious walk
around a guilty persons home he keeps acting
innocent.
Downstairs, David whispers to Meg that tonight
has to be the night that she escape and just
come back for Susan later.
Upstairs the officer says he got reports of
Meg being abused, but Ruth successfully gets
the officer to not believe those facts.
The boys come downstairs blaming David for
squealing but he comes up with an excuse.
Later, David comes back to sneak a flashlight.
He suspense fully walks down the stairs as
a suspicious Ruth listens.
He makes a break for it when the phone rings.
David tries to untie the heavily bruised,
dehydrated and hungry Meg and gives her money.
She rejects the money because it could get
her in trouble, so instead he gives her a
small blade just in case and departs to see
if she can escape.
David hides the money under a rock that both
Meg and him are familiar with and then later
that night he watches to see if she escapes,
but she doesn't.
He then notices his hidden money I still there,
showing she definitely didn't leave.
David then goes to the house and Donny tells
him to close the door.
Downstairs, Ruth, the neighborhood kids and
Susan watch as Meg is raped by Willie.
Ruth says that's all she's good for when the
act is finished.
They force David to watch basically and Ruth
tells a mentally broken Susan wanting her
mom to shut the fuck up.
Ruth then asks who wants to rape her next.
Donny offers to but Ruth says no because it
would be like incest to rape her with his
brothers semen inside her.
Everybody else wants to cut her, putting a
message on her so people know she is a whore.
Ruth heats up a bobby pin as everybody holds
back David.
Ruth then takes the heated bobby pin and writes
the words I Fuck before abruptly cutting away.
The deed is over now and Ruth smiles as Meg's
body is mutilated so she cant get a man ever.
We see the message itself and Ruth says that
meg aint done with her punishment.
Next, Ruth wants to remove her clitoris to
also remove any pleasure she could ever get.
David then runs away, but is easily caught
and tied up to witness Ruth mutilate Megs
vagina with a blow torch.
David must have passed out, because he then
wakes back up in the basement.
He gets himself loose and goes to see Meg,
who is having the life pulled away from her
but is still alive.
Susan then asks David if he hates her and
obviously he says of course not but she says
he should.
Susan says its all her fault this happened,
because Meg did try to escape the previous
night, but her need to take her sister with
her got her caught.
Meg definitely didn't want to leave her sister
because Susan herself was being molested by
Ruth, to the point that there was bleeding.
Meg then finally wakes up, barely able to
utter any word but it hurts.
To help get them out, David starts a fire
in the basement.
When Ruth comes down to see, David knocks
her out with Susan's crutches and then kills
Ruth with some nasty sounding hits before
getting tackled by Donny.
Willie then comes to beat David and holds
a knife to his neck, but right before he cuts
the police show up clutch!
They take the boys away and the officer finds
out what happened from a scarred and sad David.
The officer carries Susan away and David lays
next to a dying Meg to hear her last words.
Meg asks him if he can get her mother's ring
back from that demon on the floor which David
yanks off.
Then after some more words expressing her
confusion on how anybody could do this to
another person, she passes on.
Well with that sad recap over, we cut back
to the present as David mourns the memory
of Meg.
The movie ends as David walks to where he
used to collect crayfish, recounting that
Meg taught him something, that its what you
do last that counts.
Well yes it was clearly a disturbing film,
but it should hit that it was a movie reflected
from real life.
Even though these movies are messed up, I
am a firm believer that real life can be even
more disturbing.
Now that we seen The Girl Next Door, lets
talk about the most disturbed moment and most
enjoyed moment in that Spooky Stuff!
So back when I had a series called Nite Shorts,
which is a series where I just talked about
big crimes, I was going to make a video about
Sylvia Likens because it is truly a disturbing
crime that just speaks evil.
If I were to name one crime that was probably
more disturbing than this one, it would be
the similar murder of Junko Furuta.
In fact the man who authored the Mai Chans
Daily Life manga also made a manga about the
Junko Furuta crime and let me tell you guys
nothing has ever shocked me more than that
manga.
Okay anyway, the most disturbed moment of
this movie is probably the scene of the branding.
The rape is a close second but the branding
put you up close to a girls suffering to where
you had to turn away.
Gladly though they didn't show the blowtorch
mutilation.
The most enjoyed moment is hard to pick because
we don't see lots of good things happening,
but I'd say it was all the times David and
Meg were together.
I just wish Meg could have kept that smile
more.
And that's it, hope you guys enjoyed this
video and if you did, make sure you click
the like button and check out these film selections
here to see similar stories to this one!
Thanks for watching, Spooky OUT!